#+title: Programming the portable computer telephone device with Shortcuts (iOS)
#+date: <2024-03-20 Wed 08:41>
#+setupfile: org.txt

I've known about iOS Shortcuts for a while. It seemed like it should be
powerful---like a full-blown visual AppleScript on your phone?---but I
couldn't think of a good use for me. (Also, AppleScript doesn't really
click for me, either.)

Recently I found myself doing a couple repetitive tasks on my phone and
thought, Ah! Sure enough, Shortcuts handles them nicely. 

*1. Digging in to the system password manager.*

I have verification codes set up for a few services through my phone.
Logging in via the phone itself is smart and seamless, but sometimes I
need to /read/ a verification code on my phone and /type/ it on my PC.
Getting to the code for a particular saved password consists of
multiple, very manual, repetitive steps.

I created two shortcuts to fix this. One presents a text input and jumps
to the password that matches (partial match works). The second presents
a pick list of the few that I use the most. Very nice. Here's an example
of the pick version.

[[file:../assets/images/notes/programming-the-portable-computer-telephone-device-with-shortcuts-ios/image0.jpeg]]

*2. Reminder templates.*

I love making pizza with my kids, but there are... steps... I have to
remember and keep things moving. Get the dough out of the fridge and
divide it. Preheat the oven. Clean the Baking Steel later when it's
cool. Probably more. I used Google Tasks for this and it started feeling
very repetitive.

I created a shortcut that prompts for a start date and time, prefilled
with “tomorrow 6pm,” and blasts out all the reminders I need for that
meal. Slick.

Google Tasks does not support automation, so I use iOS Reminders for
this. (Complaint: Is there no unified view of Reminders and Calendar?!
Reminders in and of itself is a great reminder system.)

iOS Reminders's templates feature would also work for this, but there's
no date picker interaction available there. Programming to the rescue.
Here's the first part of the script:

[[file:../assets/images/notes/programming-the-portable-computer-telephone-device-with-shortcuts-ios/image1.jpeg]]

And the resulting reminders:

[[file:../assets/images/notes/programming-the-portable-computer-telephone-device-with-shortcuts-ios/image2.jpeg]]

*To run shortcuts*, you can use the shortcuts app, search for “sho,”
create a Home Screen widget, or add individual shortcuts to the Home
Screen. You can also add to the Lock Screen, but individual shortcut
icons are not distinguishable from each other there. I am trying most of
the above and will see what sticks.

Search:

[[file:../assets/images/notes/programming-the-portable-computer-telephone-device-with-shortcuts-ios/image3.jpeg]]

Widget:

[[file:../assets/images/notes/programming-the-portable-computer-telephone-device-with-shortcuts-ios/image4.jpeg]]

Home Screen shortcut (the one on the right with a pizza on it):

[[file:../assets/images/notes/programming-the-portable-computer-telephone-device-with-shortcuts-ios/image5.jpeg]]

Overall, Shortcuts is not what I would call a pleasant /programming
environment/ (on the phone), but it is powerful and the results are
worthwhile for the right task. Check out all the available automation
hooks. There are a ton, especially for built in apps.
